To begin,
I'll invite you to sit
in a comfortable position.
Allow both soles of your feet
to connect to the floor,
If that's possible for you.
Rest your hands on your thighs
and let your shoulders drop.
If you'd like,
you may gently close your eyes,
Or if you prefer to keep them open,
you could gaze
softly down.
Let your spine grow
tall and noble like the trunk of a tree.
We're aiming for a posture that is alert
but still comfortable.
Take a moment to notice
how your body feels.
If you notice any areas of tension,
see if you can gently release them.
And now,
bring your attention
to the flow of your breath.
You don't need to breathe
in any special way.
Your body knows how
to breathe all on it's own.
Simply notice each
breath coming into the body
within in breath and leaving the body
with an out breath.
Perhaps you notice your breath
in and around your nose.
more in your chest area, around your ribs.
Perhaps you notice it around your stomach.
You might feel your abdomen
moving with your inhale
and your exhale.
Just notice your breath
in whatever way is most prominent for you.
Not trying to change it, just noticing.
If you notice,
your mind is caught up in
thoughts, emotions or body sensations,
know that this is normal.
Simply notice what is distracting
you and gently let it go
by redirecting your attention
back to the flow
of your breath.
As we prepare to end this
three-minute practice for today,
take a few more mindful breaths.
You may wish to wiggle your toes and your fingers,
move around a bit in your seat.
And when you are ready,
slowly open your eyes or return your gaze
upward.
And now, gently bring your attention
back to your surroundings,
as you begin
to move on to the next part of your day.